docs/usage.rst, before:

Usage
=====

.. _Usage:

The primary function in the package is the COARE v3.5 algorithm. Usage::

    >>> coare35vn(u) 
    
Include other kwargs as desired


.. autofunction:: pycoare.coare.c35

Additional notes on this COARE v3.5 implementation:

-  This is the vectorized version of COARE 3 code (Fairall et al, 2003) with modification
   based on the CLIMODE, MBL and CBLAST experiments (Edson et al., 2013).
-  The cool skin option is retained but warm layer and surface wave options
   have been removed.
-  This version includes parameterizations of wave height and wave slope using
   cp and sigH.  Unless these are provided the wind speed dependent
   formulation is used.
-  u is the ocean-relative wind speed, i.e., the magnitude of the
   difference between the wind (at zu) and ocean surface current
   vectors.
-  Set jcool=0 if ts is true surface skin temperature,
   otherwise ts is assumed the bulk temperature and jcool=1.
-  The code to compute the heat flux caused by precipitation is
   included if rain data is available (default is no rain).
-  Code updates the cool-skin temperature depression dter and thickness
   tkt during iteration loop for consistency.
-  Number of iterations set to nits = 6.
-  Default values are included, but should probably be edited
   to be specific to your region.

Commit message:

Expanding output variable functionality and moving to beta version (#11)
* clarity updates and units to output explainer file

* added examples of code usage for documentation

* changed return logic
added support for custom list of variables
moved return function to util.py as a private function
now helpful errors are raised for bad variable names
altered c35 documentation for clarity

* fixes from changes during testing

* Moving to beta version

docs/usage.rst, after:

Usage
=====

.. _Usage:

The primary function in the package is the COARE v3.5 algorithm. Usage::

    >>> from pycoare.coare import c35
    >>> c35(u, **kwargs)
    
Include other kwargs as desired


.. autofunction:: pycoare.coare.c35

Usage example of obtaining wind stress with default values::

    >>> from pycoare.coare import c35
    >>> c35(np.arange(0, 3, 0.5), out='tau')
    [0.         0.00060099 0.00165964 0.00319525 0.00520422 0.0076875 ]


Additional notes on this COARE v3.5 implementation:

-  This is the vectorized version of COARE 3 code (Fairall et al, 2003) with modification
   based on the CLIMODE, MBL and CBLAST experiments (Edson et al., 2013).
-  The cool skin option is retained but warm layer and surface wave options
   have been removed.
-  This version includes parameterizations of wave height and wave slope using
   cp and sigH.  Unless these are provided the wind speed dependent
   formulation is used.
-  u is the ocean-relative wind speed, i.e., the magnitude of the
   difference between the wind (at zu) and ocean surface current
   vectors.
-  Set jcool=0 if ts is true surface skin temperature,
   otherwise ts is assumed the bulk temperature and jcool=1.
-  The code to compute the heat flux caused by precipitation is
   included if rain data is available (default is no rain).
-  Code updates the cool-skin temperature depression dter and thickness
   tkt during iteration loop for consistency.
-  Number of iterations set to nits = 6.
-  Default values are included, but should probably be edited
   to be specific to your region.
